Add guide for setting up Grafana monitoring (#3962)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/self-host/configure/monitoring-with-grafana.md

---

> title: Monitoring with Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Monitoring with Prometheus and Grafana
```

---

This guide covers how to configure monitoring of your self-hosted deployment through Grafana.
If you are targeting a production use-case, we _highly_ recommend setting up all of these options.

## Getting started

By default, the PostHog Helm chart does not come with Grafana enabled, so we will need to update our config values in order to install it.

> **Note: ** This guide requires you to be running a Helm chart version of at least `26.0.6`. If you are running an older version, take a look at our guide on [how to upgrade PostHog](/docs/runbook/upgrading-posthog)

## Setting up cluster monitoring

This section covers setting up basic monitoring for the entire Kubernetes cluster, and provides basic metrics such as CPU usage, memory usage, and disk IOs.

To set up basic monitoring, we will need to enable the following two charts:

-   [grafana/grafana](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/grafana)
-   [prometheus-community/prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus)

which can be done by adding the following lines to our `values.yaml`

```yaml
grafana:
    enabled: true
prometheus:
    enabled: true

>     alertmanager:

Reviewer: Nit: alertmanager is not strictly necessary if we don't want to get alerted

        enabled: true
```

Next, we'll need to upgrade our deployment to spin-up the additional services, which can be done using the following command:

```
helm upgrade -f values.yaml --timeout 30m --namespace posthog posthog posthog/posthog --atomic --wait --wait-for-jobs --debug
```

### Connecting to Grafana

Once our deployment is back up and running, we can now log in to Grafana to see our dashboards.
By default, a single user is created with the username `admin` and an auto-generated password can be fetched by running:

```
kubectl -n posthog get secret posthog-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode
```

Next, we'll connect to Grafana by port-forwarding into the `posthog-grafana` service:

```
kubectl -n posthog port-forward svc/posthog-grafana 8080:80
```

Our Grafana dashboard should now be available at `localhost:8080`, and we can log in using the username `admin` along with the password we just retrieved.

> 

Reviewer: Note: users can also expose the service via an `Ingress` without having to use the port forwarding. By exposing the service they will be able to reach the service directly using a DNS name (or IP)

![basic cluster overview dashboard](../../../images/docs/self-host/configure/monitoring-with-grafana/overview.png)

Finally, if we now go to the list of Dashboards and navigate to PostHog > Kubernetes (cluster overview), you should see a pre-configured dashboard with a number of metrics related to our cluster!

For more information on configuring and using Grafana, check out the [official docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/getting-started/)

## Setting up service-specific monitoring

While the basic cluster-overview monitoring is useful for monitoring overall cluster health, there is still a lot of important information about each service within PostHog that isn't available.

> To fix this, PostHog includes a number of connectors for Prometheus that allow us to stream metrics from specific services into their own separate dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix this, PostHog includes a number of exporters for Prometheus that allow us to stream metrics from specific services into their own separate dashboard.
```

For more information on the configuration values for each service, check out [ALL_VALUES.md](https://github.com/PostHog/charts-clickhouse/blob/main/charts/posthog/ALL_VALUES.md) for the full list of configuration options.

> ### Kafka monitoring

Reviewer: cc @hazzadous who might be able to provide more info

For streaming information from Kafka, we use the [prometheus-community/prometheus-kafka-exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus-kafka-exporter) chart, which can be installed by setting `prometheus-kafka-exporter.enabled` to `true` in your `values.yaml` file.
If you are using an external Kafka service, you can use the `prometheus-kafka-exporter.kafkaServer` option to set the location for your managed service.

> ### Postgres monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PostgreSQL monitoring
```

> For streaming information from Postgres, we use the [prometheus-community/prometheus-postgres-exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus-postgres-exporter) chart, which can be installed by setting `prometheus-postgres-exporter.enabled` to `true` in your `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To expose PostgreSQL metrics, we use the [prometheus-community/prometheus-postgres-exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus-postgres-exporter) chart, which can be installed by setting `prometheus-postgres-exporter.enabled` to `true` in your `values.yaml` file.
```

> If you are using an external Postgres deployment, you can use the `prometheus-postgres-exporter.config.datasource` option to set the location for your managed service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using an external PostgreSQL deployment, you can use the `prometheus-postgres-exporter.config.datasource` option to set the location for your managed service.
```

> ![sample postgres dashboard](../../../images/docs/self-host/configure/monitoring-with-grafana/postrges.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![sample PostgreSQL dashboard](../../../images/docs/self-host/configure/monitoring-with-grafana/postrges.png)
```

Reviewer: There's a typo also in the filename

_A sample of the default Postgres dashboard_

### Redis monitoring

> For streaming information from Redis, we use the [prometheus-community/prometheus-redis-exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/prometheus-redis-exporter) chart, which can be installed by setting `prometheus-redis-exporter.enabled` to `true` in your `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer: Ditto
